In this video let us write a program for finding the sum of first natural numbers.
Already we have seen the formula in the video called expression.
So let us write a complete program. let us  see what does it mean by sum of first n natural number, see
natural numbers starts from one onwards so one plus two plus three plus so on upto some number if you
want to find a sum of all these numbers that the formula is there that is n into n plus one by two.
So for example if I want to find out one plus two plus three plus four plus five up to five I want to
find out how much it is, three plus three six 10 then 15.
So this is coming up to 15 now sum is 15.
So if I use that formula what it will be like up to five and finding out.
So this is a five into(*).
This is five plus one six by two.
So how is this a 6 1 6 threes.
So 5 3 15.
So this also 15.
So yes this is the formula.
So formula for finding the sum all first n natural number, up to what number you find out.
So this is a well-known formula but I already have explained it now.
Now next we want to write a program for program.
Let us first of all write down a flowchart. so I will prepare a flow chart.
So for the flow chart we should follow these steps for writing the program, as well as for flow chart, input,
process, output so the basic programs will have these things.
So what is input for this program.
Let us see in the formula.
n is input.
Yes this is input then what is output sum is output.
Yes.
this is the output
And that is the formula for processing.
Use the formula.
So let us draw the flow chart.
Let us start first start.
First step I should take the input so I should have input box and here I will say print  enter n
I should know the value of n. see the input this n here.
So I should know the value n so enter n then read a value n in a variable, then next step is a
process, so second step is process.
So this input is over.
Next is process, so what's the the processing, calculating sum, so how to cal. sum, sum assigned with n into n
plus 1 by 2.
This is processing the next step is output.
So we have the result. where is result? in variable sum so print that one.
Then again the input output box.
So I will write on this and I will give a message that print 'sum is' then after this I will write down
variable name. so there's a message in double quotes.
Then after this end of flow chart so stop flow chart.
So there is a flow chart for finding the sum of first n natural number using this formula.
Now next thing in the previous video I have written algorithm.
I will not write it.
You know how to write it just you have to take these steps and write them and begin and end block.
For now I will write on a C++ program directly so I remove this and I write down a C++ program looking
at the flowchart. starting of a program First of all say hash include iostream we have to include this header file
them using namespace using namespace std that is standard.
In short it is a std then int main function.
Now inside this false thing what I should do.
Enter and print.
So print means output on the screen so display C out so first thing.
cout enter n, next I should read the value.
So for reading the value it is cin so say Cin abstraction operator n what is n.
n that is a variable.
So I should declare the variable first.
Yes.
So if you read this flowchart what are the variables are required.
n and also has sum, so which type is this, see it should be int type because you are finding the sum
of first n natural numbers that are integers.
So n as well as sum.
Don't worry about the division because you will not get decimal result there.
So you will get integer result only. so this is over the next step is finding formula that is sum, sum assign
n into n plus one by two then after that print the result.
So sum, this is the step I'm writing  that is output sum is this is the message it is closed.
Then again insertion operator write down the variable name that is sum. this sum is the variable name
is a part of a message right.
So I can even write a complete message sum of first n natural numbers is so and so, then after
that, as we wrote int here so we can write a return 0 here and that's all.
So that's all this is the program so there is coding exercise available for this one so which asks you
to write on the formula so read the coding exercise and read the comments properly and then complete
the coding exercise.
Then after that we say that we have a video for demonstration of this one right so after watching you
practice on your own machine.
If you have any questions if you get any errors.
Just give yours screen shot to me in question answer section then I will give you a replay, if you face
any problem so that's all in this video.
Now next the videos we will see more formulas.